So far, I've just been talking
about what a PM is and isn't.
Let's get into,
what I think PM should be doing.
This is roughly ordered, is this true?
Not totally,
it's ordered in a way that I think I can
draw a narrative through most of it.
But I try to keep the most
important things up front and
basically the most basic building
blocks and then go up from there.
So, we're gonna hop into
stakeholder management now.
Why did I put this first?
Because product management, as I've
said before, it's about people, and
it's always about people, and
if it's not about people,
then you're probably not
doing your job correctly.
Because ultimately, at the end of this,
always should be a person.
Even if you're building, I don't know, a
piece that goes into a device that's then
sold to someone, that goes into something
that then ends up in a user's hand.
You need to be concerned about everyone
in that process and all of the people,
the people factor,
involved in all of these different pieces,
including the end user of whatever
you're going to be doing.
If you're not thinking about that and
you're only thinking about the dimensions
of your piece that goes into that,
I don't think you're doing your job
as good as you could be doing it.
It's all about people, and so we're
gonna talk about stakeholder management.
And a stakeholder is just another word for
person that cares about
whatever you're doing.
So, let's take Google Maps for example.
Fathom that you are a PM,
that is the product owner,
of Google Maps, Maps likely has
dozens of PMs that work on it.
But let's just simplify for a second and
say that you are the only
PM working on Google Maps.
Think through for a second everyone that
cares about what happens on Google Maps,
everyone.
Well, let's talk about end users first,
first of all,
there's many types of end users for
Google Maps.
There's the navigating user, which is
probably what most of us thought of first.
But think of all the different
types of navigating users,
you could be navigating on a car.
Which is gonna be way different
than navigating walking,
those are two different users.
Even if those users like, I'll walk
one day and I'll drive the next day,
that's just me changing
my perspective on them.
But I still care about both of those
personas, I am both of those personas.
And it can be multiple personas at once,
right?
So, cars, biking, transit, rideshare,
walking, those are all different types
of users and you need to care individually
about every one of those personas.
I open Google Maps all the time just
to find the hours of businesses, right?
That's a type of user,
that's a valid use case of your app,
that's a stakeholder in your app.
How far away something is, I will check
how far would it take me to drive to
Fargo from here or
something like that, right?
Some of this was looking at geography,
I've also zoomed out where
the hell is Armenia?
I don't actually know where that is.
And I know was zoom out, my math was
a cost there, I didn't know that.
Finding where their friends are,
I've definitely used that before.
Third party apps that embeds maps
like Uber embeds Google maps.
And if I'm the PM of Google Maps, I really
need to care about that end user because
now if they get upset at Uber because of
their maps, Uber is gonna be upset at me.
And that's, those are all stakeholders
that I have to care about.
So, in that light,
third party developers using Maps,
you have to care a lot
about their experience,
both with the development of their app and
the end user experience thereof.
Business owners, they have to go in and
manage their hours, their menus,
do they accept DoorDash,
are they kid-friendly?
And those are frequently very
non-technical users because they're gonna
be like mom and pop bodegas.
So, that's another critical
stakeholder in what Google Map does.
And then you have to care about all of
your internal users, your team has a stake
in your app, your manager, your manager's
manager, teams in which you depend, right?
So, if you are depending on Google
infrastructure, that team, they're trying
to solve your problems and therefore
they have a stake in your app as well.
The DevOps team that manages that,
the Google shareholders off, obviously.
We live in a capitalistic society, so they
also have to care about your app as well.
So, my point here is, you have a lot of
end users, you have a lot of stakeholders.
And whenever you're building something,
you need to think quite a bit about that.
So, this is kind of an exercise
of breaking down personas and
stakeholders and
you can kind of think of in terms of how
I'm talking about stakeholders and
personas being similar concepts.
Why do we care about any of this,
why do we care about all
the people that are using this?
Because we're building products for and
with our stakeholders, and we need to
be incredibly mindful of the things,
the directions that we choose to go.
Because inevitably, to some degree,
you are always trading off this
stakeholder versus this stakeholder.
Even if it's like it's a slam dunk, this
is the best feature that we can build,
you are still trading off that your team
has to maintain this feature long term,
and you need to consider that, right?
Like if you build a whole new
service that has a new database and
it has a vector database that then
talks to a large language model,
that's just three new things that you
just threw on your infrastructure.
And now your infrastructure team cares,
and your team has to care, and
your team has to get paged on it.
And if you're not thinking about this,
you end up with an app where you're
getting paged constantly and no ones
doing anything about it because you didn't
manage your stakeholders correctly.
So I think this is best rather than, I'm
kind of talking in the abstract to just
kind of take this and make this more,
try and make this concrete.
So, let's say we get a directive to
make more money for Google Maps.
Just pause for a second here and
just think about, all right,
you PM of Google Maps, you need to go
make more money, how are you gonna do it?
I'll tell you what I thought of,
sponsored listings, right?
So, right now if you search for something
on Google Maps, it'll show you one or
two sponsored listings,
why don't we increase that to five?
It seems like a pretty,
now we have more ad slots to sell.
But let's talk about what did I,
either explicitly or implicitly,
just trade off to go from two
to five sponsored listings?
So let's say I'm searching for
something like coffee shop and
I'm going to allow Starbucks.
Which is a mile away to be listed
higher than a half mile away this
little boutique one that
would have been on my way.
Explicitly what I'm doing there is I have
a ranking algorithm that would have put,
let's call it Herkimer, cuz that's the one
I live next to and I love their coffee.
That would have put Herkimer first and
my ranking algorithm would
have shown that first, right?
Instead I'm gonna put Starbucks higher
than that because they gave me some
money to do that.
I am explicitly giving
the user a worst experience,
I had an idea of what I think is
the best thing to get this user and
I am giving them something inferior
in the name of taking money.
I have traded off that stakeholder for
a different stakeholder, is that okay?
I don't know, right?
So you kinda have to ask yourself, what's
my impact here versus who am I affecting?
But that's the obvious one.
Let's talk about people that are already
paying for sponsored slots, right?
So, if Starbucks is already paying for
that,
let's say that I have another
Seattle's Best Coffee,
which is actually still Starbucks,
but let's ignore that for a second.
[LAUGH] That Seattle's Best
comes in here and they buy one,
and they're two miles away.
And they paid even more money, so now
they're ranked even higher than Starbucks.
I have now devalued the existing
sponsored slot, right?
Which probably means I'm driving down
my price on those slots as well,
because now it has become more cheaper,
right?
Because there's more of them.
But, I mean, the other thing you can look
at, is we can help net new businesses,
maybe we have a brand
new coffee shop opening.
And they open,
they put a sponsored listing in there and
now they can get the word out,
they're nearby and they can open that.
Obviously, we're harming
even more businesses,
like now Herkimer doesn't pay at all for
this.
And now they are the sixth result
on Google, no one looks that,
we have science that says people don't
don't look six results down, right?
So that really sucks.
So, I mean, actually, this was actually a
real story for me when I was writing this.
This was actually just Brian ranting right
here, this whole section right here.
I was on Instacart, did I say that here?
I was on a popular
grocery delivery service.
[LAUGH] And I was gonna give a gift
to a friend of Tequila, right?
And I was so
frustrated with their search results.
I went through and I counted,
there was 20 results.
50% of those results were ads,
and 40% of those results were not tequila.
I would have searched for hard seltzer or
bourbon if I had one of those things.
But I was just so pissed, I was like,
I couldn't find a bottle of tequila.
I'm not searching for tequila just
cuz I like, I wanna get drunk, right?
I mean, sort of, but that's not
actually why I was doing that, right?
So, I really felt that popular
delivery service had sold me out as
a stakeholder, right?
So, in the situation should you do it,
right?
Do you think this is a valid way for
Google to make more money?
I'm gonna argue that based on my just
product sense, my intuition here,
I actually don't think this is likely
to increase profits that much.
And certainly not at the cost of how
much it devalues the experience of both
existing users of the existing businesses
and for the end user of people using it.
So, yeah, the metrics matter here,
we have a whole section on metrics and
we'll get there, yeah.
>> So when it does come to
those more gray scenarios and
then again, maybe we'll get to
this later in the workshop,
but are there ways to
refine that gray area?
So, I'm trying to think of how
would you go about quantifying
the impact to the UX and
distilling that down into,
here's how it's going to impact
our bottom line, potentially.
And why showing more ads might increase
the bottom line by one and a half percent.
But it's going to degrade the UX
in such a way that we actually
lose money, there's a lot of factors-
>> Yeah.
>> In that calculus, so [LAUGH].
>> So, I'll give you the PMing
tools to do it, but at this point,
you're starting to get into game
theory and stuff like that.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGH]
>> So at that point,
I involved the data science team cuz
I am not a data scientist, right?
They're gonna be able to help me do,
and probably the accountants and
finance people, right?
Cuz they're gonna be able to do
projections and stuff like that.
The tool, as a product manager,
that I use, and
I talked about this in
the prioritization but
it actually applies upon a lot of
places not just in prioritization.
There's tools, one of them is called
the RICE method, which is Reach, Impact,
is it, kind of gotta remember,
lemme just scroll down in here.
This one here, Confidence and
Effort, right?
Using that, you can assign numbers
to all of those things and
you kinda get a score at the end of,
if we do this, we reach this many people,
we're this confident that
we're gonna reach them.
It's gonna have this kind
of impact on them and
it's gonna cost us this much to get there.
And it kinda helps you rank, do this
first, then do this, then do this, and
don't do this, right?
Or you can just think about as
impact versus effort, which is just
the really simplest way of thinking,
is like, is that high impact, high effort?
Or is it high impact low effort or
is it low effort, high impact?
Those are kind of things you
can use to think about it.
But in this particular case, because of
all of the money and stakeholders and
what is a three-way marketplace,
how does that function?
Generally, you need data
people to help you out.
Or at least I do because I'm not smart
enough to handle those kinda things.
>> Sure, yeah.
Well, that's a good kinda coarse grain,
next level down,
how you can justify this is,
my intuition leans one way and
here's a way that I can frame it up
that helps support my intuition.
And then, yeah, if you need another
level of detail, then good.
>> And another thing I'll just
like kinda throw out here is that,
I'll experiment frequently, right?
So, if let's say that we do think this
is actually gonna be a good idea.
I will say, we're gonna try this,
we're gonna try it for a month, and
we're gonna turn it off.
And then we're gonna look at
all the data and figure out,
what did we actually do to the products,
right?
And so those kinda low cost, quick
experiments, cuz Google Maps has such
a user base, you could probably get really
good results really quickly on that.
That would tell you really strongly, do we
stand actually to make more money here?
That would actually be
a perfect use case for
experimentation cuz it should
be pretty low cost to just say,
instead of showing two,
show me five now and see what happens.
Did we lower CSAT?
Did we increase revenue, did we?
Are we sending people to the businesses
that we think they should go to?
Those things, right?
So, experimentation is
also super valuable here.
How do you frame this to your data science
team to get the best answers out of them?
Certainly one of the things is I try to
have my data scientists in many of those
kind of product planning meetings so that
they have all of the context that I have.
I try to involve them as early and
as frequently as they want to be involved.
With generally, I work with our
awesome data scientists, and
then we're kinda data science platform.
So, they're generally very interested
in the things that I build.
I have a user research
team right in front of me,
I just go ask them, it's like, hey,
how did you not streamlet today, right?
And then I get to build those things.
So, involving them, finding awesome
partners and involving them as much as you
can is generally just a solve all for
many of the problems that you have.
That's not always possible,
like at Microsoft,
I didn't have a designated
user researcher.
And so I had to go to the user
researcher Oregon and
make proposals and stuff like that.
In those cases I try and make a pretty
detailed product spec, I try and walk them
through, here's everything that I want,
here's my goals here's my non-goals.
Here's the metrics I'm looking to affect,
here's the metrics that
I'm hoping to hold steady.
And try and give them a pretty
solid basis for them to go and
make some predictions and analysis and
those kinds of things out of.
So, I just try and
think like they do and I try and
answer their questions both before
they have them and after that.